README.md, before:

# intro-to-jar-files
**Definition:** JAR files are compressed Java archives (hence the extension '.jar'). These are bundles of Java-related files, assembled as Java archives. JAR files are convenient for unpacking and distributing Java web applets. 

Advantages of .jar files include the following:

| Advantage | Explanation |  
| --- | --- |   
| **Accessible File Information** | Information about archived files, such as versioning and vendor details, can be stored conveniently. |  
| **Applet Portability** | .jar files are handled by the Java API, enabling compatibility in many software and hardware setups. |
| **Data Compression** | Java-related files can be compressed to simplify storage and enable convenient unpacking for usage. |  
| **Extension Packaging** | Turns apps into extensions and adds functonality to core Java. |
| **Faster Downloads** | Only one HTTP transaction (one connection) is necessary for Java applet class files (and related resources) to be sent to a web browser. |
| **Package Sealing** | By assuring that all classes in a package are included within a .jar file, version consistency can be sustained. |
| **Secure Digital Signatures** | .jar files can be trusted with permissions based on utilizing these as a security mechanism. |  

<br /><br />
**How to use .jar files:**  The Java Development Kit ('JDK') contains a Java Archive Tool for accomplishing .jar file tasks. To use this tool, you would use the `jar` command.

<br /><br />
Some common uses of the jar command ('jar tool'):

| Usage | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| **jar cf example-jar example-input-file** | Creates a .jar. *(Multiple input files can be specified.)* |
| **jar tf example-jar** | Displays contents of a .jar. |
| **jar xf example-jar specified-file** | Extracts specified files from a .jar. *(Multiple files can be specified.)* |
| **jar xf example-jar** | Extracts all contents of a .jar. |
| **jar uf example-jar example-input-file** | Updates JAR file contents *(Multiple input files can be specified. Alternatively, can update the manifest directly.)* |
| **java -jar app.jar** | Runs a .jar applet, using the manifest header of the Main-Class. |

<br /><br />
**Manifest files** contain essential data about the files packaged within JARs. This 'metadata' includes dependencies with other JAR files, versioning and security information (such as electronic signing), and other important values related to identification and the various advantages associated with .jar files.
  
Upon creation of a JAR, a default manifest file is generated with a pathname of `META-INF/MANIFEST.MF`. Only one manifest file is permitted per JAR.

<br /><br />
Examples of APIs that integrate JAR files include:  

| API | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| **java.net.JarURLConnection** *(class)* | Provides URL connections to read JAR files (or entries within JAR files). |
| **java.net.URLClassLoader** *(class)* | Loads resources from URL search paths associated with JAR files/directories. |
| **java.util.jar** *(package)* | Contains classes for reading and writing JAR files. |

<br /><br />
TODO #1: Create and link to text files outlining options for various command usages.  
TODO #2: Create and link to a text file outlining details about manifest files.  
TODO #3: Provide an overview of .jar file signatures.  
TODO #4: Add overview of WAR files.

Commit message:

Added a note about .war files.

README.md, after:

# intro-to-jar-files
**Definition:** JAR files are compressed Java archives (hence the extension '.jar'). These are bundles of Java-related files, assembled as Java archives. JAR files are convenient for unpacking and distributing Java web applets. 

Advantages of .jar files include the following:

| Advantage | Explanation |  
| --- | --- |   
| **Accessible File Information** | Information about archived files, such as versioning and vendor details, can be stored conveniently. |  
| **Applet Portability** | .jar files are handled by the Java API, enabling compatibility in many software and hardware setups. |
| **Data Compression** | Java-related files can be compressed to simplify storage and enable convenient unpacking for usage. |  
| **Extension Packaging** | Turns apps into extensions and adds functonality to core Java. |
| **Faster Downloads** | Only one HTTP transaction (one connection) is necessary for Java applet class files (and related resources) to be sent to a web browser. |
| **Package Sealing** | By assuring that all classes in a package are included within a .jar file, version consistency can be sustained. |
| **Secure Digital Signatures** | .jar files can be trusted with permissions based on utilizing these as a security mechanism. |  

<br /><br />
**How to use .jar files:**  The Java Development Kit ('JDK') contains a Java Archive Tool for accomplishing .jar file tasks. To use this tool, you would use the `jar` command.

<br /><br />
Some common uses of the jar command ('jar tool'):

| Usage | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| **jar cf example-jar example-input-file** | Creates a .jar. *(Multiple input files can be specified.)* |
| **jar tf example-jar** | Displays contents of a .jar. |
| **jar xf example-jar specified-file** | Extracts specified files from a .jar. *(Multiple files can be specified.)* |
| **jar xf example-jar** | Extracts all contents of a .jar. |
| **jar uf example-jar example-input-file** | Updates JAR file contents *(Multiple input files can be specified. Alternatively, can update the manifest directly.)* |
| **java -jar app.jar** | Runs a .jar applet, using the manifest header of the Main-Class. |

<br /><br />
**Manifest files** contain essential data about the files packaged within JARs. This 'metadata' includes dependencies with other JAR files, versioning and security information (such as electronic signing), and other important values related to identification and the various advantages associated with .jar files.
  
Upon creation of a JAR, a default manifest file is generated with a pathname of `META-INF/MANIFEST.MF`. Only one manifest file is permitted per JAR.

<br /><br />
Examples of APIs that integrate JAR files include:  

| API | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| **java.net.JarURLConnection** *(class)* | Provides URL connections to read JAR files (or entries within JAR files). |
| **java.net.URLClassLoader** *(class)* | Loads resources from URL search paths associated with JAR files/directories. |
| **java.util.jar** *(package)* | Contains classes for reading and writing JAR files. |

<br /><br />
**A note on WAR files:**  
  
WAR (.war) files are web app archives. A .war is a special kind of JAR that can distribute XML files, tag libraries, static webpages, Java classes, Java Servlets, and JavaServer pages. These resources, when integrated and implemented together, are considered a web application.

TODO #1: Create and link to text files outlining options for various command usages.  
TODO #2: Create and link to a text file outlining details about manifest files.  
TODO #3: Provide an overview of .jar file signatures.  
TODO #4: Create and link to a text file outlining details about WAR files.
